# Machine Learning Project 1 - EPFL

## Group Members
- Stefano Viel
- Valerio Ardizio
- Malena Mendilaharzu


Our submission on AIcrowd: [stefano_viel](https://www.aicrowd.com/participants/stefano_viel)


## Repository Contents

1. **README.md** - You are currently reading this file.
2. **helpers.py** - Contains helper methods provided by the project instructions.
3. **implementations.py** - Contains the implementations of the six methods required by the project instructions.
4. **utilities.py** - Contains methods created by us, specifically for preprocessing and training the model.
5. **run.py** - Contains the final code to train the model and obtain prediction results.
6. **prediction.csv** - The results obtained, which can be generated by running `run.py`.


## Dataset
The data used to train the model is provided by the project instructions and is expected to be in the following file paths within the `dataset` folder:
- `dataset/x_train.csv`
- `dataset/y_train.csv`
- `dataset/x_test.csv`


## Environment
The project has been developed and tested in Python 3.11. We have exclusively used the `numpy` library for the core functionality. For visualization purposes, we also utilized `matplotlib`.


## Getting Started
To run the code and generate predictions, follow these steps:

1. Clone this repository to your local machine.
2. Ensure you have Python 3.11 installed.
3. Install the required libraries if you haven't already. You can do this by running:
   
   `pip install numpy matplotlib`
5. 4. Place the dataset files in the `dataset` folder as mentioned above.
6. Run `run.py` using the following command:
   
```python
python run.py
```

8. The predictions will be generated and saved as `prediction.csv`.

Please refer to the project instructions and the code documentation for detailed information on the methods and implementation. If you have any questions or encounter issues, feel free to contact us.
